Update Caliptra SS streaming boot specification (#288)
chipsalliance/Caliptra: doc/Caliptra.md

Author: test

5. BMC or a similar platform component sends an `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL` write command with Component Memory Space (CMS) set to 0x0, reset set to 0x1, and image size set to streaming boot image size.
6. BMC or a similar platform component sends an `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA` write command. I3C device shall return a NACK response for any transfer that would cause the Head Pointer to advance to equal the Tail Pointer. BMC can implement flow control through NACK responses or by monitoring the FIFO space remaining via the Head and Tail Pointers.
7. The I3C device keeps head and tail pointers along with FIFO status up to date in the `INDIRECT_FIFO_STATUS` register. I3C streaming boot interface HW waits for an update to `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA` with exactly 256 bytes data or less if remaining image data is less than 256 bytes. BMC could send multiple commands to `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA` register to fill the FIFO, but it must be a multiple of 4 bytes. The I3C device indicates payload availability only if the FIFO is full (256 bytes) or if BMC writes to image activation byte in `RECOVERY_CTRL` register.

> 8. If `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA` has 256B available to read, I3C device indicates data availability via side channel implemented as wire `payload_available` to Caliptra. For more information, see [Requirement for payload available signal Implementation](#requirement-for-payload-available-signal-implementation). to Caliptra. Caliptra HW latches this wire into the register for Caliptra ROM/firmware to read.

Reviewer: +1 to copilot suggestion

> 8. If `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA` has 256B available to read, I3C device indicates data availability via side channel implemented as wire `payload_available` to Caliptra. For more information, see [Requirement for payload available signal Implementation](#requirement-for-payload-available-signal-implementation). to Caliptra. Caliptra HW latches this wire into the register for Caliptra ROM/firmware to read.

Reviewer 2: Was this fixed? Says resolved, but the old text is still present. Unresolving.

9. If `payload_available` is asserted for the first time, Caliptra ROM reads `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL_IMG_SIZE` for the image size. For each `payload_available` assertion including the first one, Caliptra ROM continues to read the image data from the `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA` register until it finishes reading the data count specified as the image size.
10. Steps 8 and 9 repeat until all the images are pushed over I3C and it matches the image size initialized in the `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL` register.
11. After the above steps, Caliptra ROM Firmware will wait for BMC to activate the image indicated to Caliptra via either of the following methods:
  - side channel `image_activated` signal. For more information, see [Requirement for image activation signal implementation](#requirement-for-image-activation-signal-implementation).

>   - Caliptra ROM could repeatedly read `RECOVERY_CTRL` register for image activation.

Reviewer 3: These two steps need to be swapped. It's a bit odd to wait for activation and then, upon activation, set the device status to "Recovery pending (waiting for activation)".

Author: Updated.

Reviewer 2: Steps are still in the incorrect order - what am I missing? Unresolving this for now.

  - When all the image bytes are received, `DEVICE_STATUS` transitions to "Recovery Pending (waiting for activation)". During image authentication, device status remains the same.

> 12. If the image is activated, Caliptra ROM updates `RECOVERY_STATUS` to “Booting recovery image” and moves to image authentication.

Reviewer 3: Update the steps.

> 13. Irrespective of success or failure from image authentication (step 17 or 18), Caliptra ROM clears the image activation bit before updating `RECOVERY_STATUS` register.

Reviewer 3: This step should be moved after step 15.

Author: Updated to - Irrespective of success or failure from image authentication (step 14 or 15), Caliptra ROM clears the image activation bit before updating `RECOVERY_STATUS` & `DEVICE_STATUS` register.

14. If the image activation is successful, and another recovery image stage is expected, then Caliptra RT firmware shall increment the “Recovery image index” in `RECOVERY_STATUS` register and set the `RECOVERY_STATUS` to indicate “Awaiting for recovery image” (0x1). If no other stages are expected, then Caliptra RT firmware shall set the `RECOVERY_STATUS` to “Recovery successful”. Also, Caliptra ROM/Caliptra RT must update the `DEVICE_STATUS` register to indicate "Running Recovery Image".
15. If the image consumption fails for any reason (for example, image authentication failure), Caliptra ROM/firmware updates `RECOVERY_STATUS` register to indicate appropriate recovery status and `DEVICE_STATUS` register to "Fatal Error (Recover Reason Code not populated)". 

> 16. BMC or a similar platform component sends the next image as requested in the image index, upon observing “Awaiting for recovery image” in `RECOVERY_STATUS` register, and Caliptra RT FW and I3C HW go through the same flow as above.

Author: Done.

10. Steps 8 and 9 repeat until all the image bytes are pushed over I3C and it matches the image size initialized in the `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL_IMG_SIZE` register.
11. When all the image bytes are received, `DEVICE_STATUS` transitions to "Recovery Pending (waiting for activation)". During image authentication, `DEVICE_STATUS` register field device status remains "Recovery Pending (waiting for activation)".
12. After the above steps, Caliptra ROM/Firmware waits for BMC to activate the image. Image activation is indicated to Caliptra via either of the following methods:
  - Side channel `image_activated` signal. For more information, see [Requirement for image activation signal implementation](#requirement-for-image-activation-signal-implementation).
  - Caliptra ROM polls on `RECOVERY_CTRL` register for image activation status. 
13. When the image is activated, Caliptra ROM updates `RECOVERY_STATUS` to “Booting recovery image” and moves to image authentication.
14. Irrespective of success or failure from image authentication (step 15 or 16), Caliptra ROM clears the image activation bit before updating `RECOVERY_STATUS` & `DEVICE_STATUS` registers.

> 15. If the image activation is successful, and another recovery image stage is expected, then Caliptra RT firmware shall increment the “Recovery image index” in `RECOVERY_STATUS` register and set the `RECOVERY_STATUS` to indicate “Awaiting recovery image” (0x1). If no other stages are expected, then Caliptra RT firmware shall set the `RECOVERY_STATUS` to “Recovery successful”. Also, Caliptra ROM/Caliptra RT must update the `DEVICE_STATUS` register to indicate "Running Recovery Image".

Reviewer 3: There is a step missing where the ROM sets the Device Status to 'Running Recovery Image (Recover Reason Code not populated)'

# OCP Recovery Interface Hardware Specifications

- Referece specifications for streaming boot sequence, 
  - [OCP Secure Firmware recovery Spec **rev 1.1-rc6**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ge_w9i5A6YKG-7nlTp--JhZf6By7I9oB3oW_2_i7JbE/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.gjdgxs) 
  - [I3C core specification](https://github.com/chipsalliance/i3c-core)

>   - [Flashless Boot using OCP, PCIe, and DMTF Standards](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ge_w9i5A6YKG-7nlTp--JhZf6By7I9oB3oW_2_i7JbE/edit?usp=sharing)

Author: Yes, it's intended to start at the top of the document for the link.

# Caliptra Subsystem Streaming Boot Interface Hardware

Please refer to Caliptra subsystem Hardware specification.

# Caliptra Subsystem Streaming Boot Sequence

1. MCU ROM initializes the `PROT_CAP`, `DEVICE_STATUS`, `DEVICE_ID`, and `HW_STATUS` registers. Any other I3C intialization settings must be confirmed against I3C core specification.
2. Caliptra ROM updates the `PROT_CAP` register to set "Flashless boot (From RESET)", "FIFO CMS Support", and "Push-C-Image Support".
3. To start streaming boot, Caliptra ROM updates the `DEVICE_STATUS` register to "Recovery mode - ready to accept recovery image” for Device status byte and "Flashless/Streaming Boot (FSB)" for Recovery reason codes.

> 4. Caliptra ROM updates to `RECOVERY_STATUS` register to "Awaiting Recovery Image" for  Device recovery status and "image index" for Recovery image index.

Author: Updated.

> 5. BMC or a similar platform component sends an `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL` write command with Component Memory Space (CMS) set to 0x0, reset set to 0x1 and image size set to streaming boot image size.

Reviewer: add a comma as follows: `...set to 0x1, and image size...`

Author: Added.

6. BMC or a similar platform component sends an `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA` write command. I3C device shall return a NACK response for any transfer that would cause the Head Pointer to advance to equal the Tail Pointer. BMC can implement flow control through NACK responses or by monitoring the FIFO space remaining via the Head and Tail Pointers.

> 7. The I3C device will keep head and tail pointers along with FIFO status up to date into `INDIRECT_FIFO_STATUS` register. I3C streaming boot interface HW waits for an update to `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA` with 256B data from BMC.

Reviewer: `up to date into`-->`up to date in the`

> 8. If `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA` has 256B available to read, I3C device indicates data availability via side channel implemented as wire `payload_available` ( for more details read [here](#requirement-for-payload-available-signal-implementation) )to Caliptra. Caliptra HW latches this wire into the register for Caliptra firmware to read.

Reviewer: minor updates: 

...wire `payload_available` to Caliptra. For more information, see [Requirement for payload available signal Implementation](#requirement-for-payload-available-signal-implementation).

Author: Added

9. Caliptra ROM reads `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL_IMG_SIZE` for the image size and reads the image data from `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA` register.

> 10. Steps 8 and 9 repeat until all the images are pushed over I3C and it matches the image size initialized into the `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL` register.

Reviewer: `into`-->`in`

11. After the above steps, Caliptra ROM Firmware will wait for BMC to activate the image indicated to Caliptra via either of the following methods:

>   - side channel `image_activated` signal (for more details read [here](#requirement-for-image-activation-signal-implementation))

Reviewer: update to: 

- side channel `image_activated` signal. For more information, see [Requirement for image activation signal implementation](#requirement-for-image-activation-signal-implementation).

  - Caliptra ROM could repeatedly read `RECOVERY_CTRL` register for image activation.

> 12. If the Image is activated, Caliptra ROM updates `RECOVERY_STATUS` to “Booting recovery image”.

Reviewer: `Image`-->`image`

13. When the image is activated, Caliptra ROM updates `RECOVERY_STATUS` to “Booting recovery image” and moves to image authentication.

> 14. Irrespective of success or failure from image authentication (step 15 or 16), Caliptra ROM clears the image activation bit before updating `RECOVERY_STATUS` & `DEVICE_STATUS` registers.

Reviewer 3: "Caliptra ROM clears the image activation bit " This field is actually a byte in OCP recovery spec:

From the spec:
"Byte 2:  Activate Recovery Image (Write 1, Device Clears) "

15. If the image consumption fails for any reason (for example, image authentication failure), Caliptra ROM/firmware updates `RECOVERY_STATUS` register to indicate appropriate recovery status.
16. If the image consumption fails for any reason (for example, image authentication failure), Caliptra ROM/firmware must update `DEVICE_STATUS` to "Boot Failure (Recover Reason Code populated)" with one of the Recovery Reason Codes from Recovery Reason Codes in OCP recovery Spec.

> 17. BMC or a similar platform component sends the next image as requested in the image index, up on observing “Awaiting for recovery image” in `RECOVERY_STATUS` register and Caliptra RT FW and I3C HW go through the same flow as above.

Reviewer: `up on`-->`upon`

`register and`-->`register, and`

Author: done.

> ## Notes / Assumptions / Outside Streaming Boot Spec Scope 

Reviewer: This heading is unfocused and none of the below has explicit statements about being an assumption or outside of scope. Recommend `Streaming Boot Spec scope notes` for this heading

Author: Updated.

- ROM refers to I3C registers by offset, and any change to the offset results in ROM failure or unexpected behavior.

> - SoC is responsible for booting the I3C Core by configuring clock frequency/sampling rate with the following registers and any other requirements specified in I3C core specifications([here](https://github.com/chipsalliance/i3c-core)).

Reviewer: update as follows: 

...specified in [I3C core specifications](https://github.com/chipsalliance/i3c-core).

Author: Updated.

- SoC is responsible for assigning static addresses to the I3C Core.
- Caliptra ROM/runtime firmware updates the `RECOVERY_STATUS` with the recovery image index.
  - For recovery Image index:
    - `0x0`: Caliptra firmware
    - `0x1`: SoC Manifest
    - `0x2`: MCU firmware
- SoC/MCU ROM sets the `HW_STATUS` register per recovery spec at any time based on SoC-specific conditions.
- MCU ROM programs `DEVICE_ID` register value based on associated fuse values.

> - SoC/MCU ROM initializes the `PROT_CAP`, `DEVICE_ID`, and `DEVICE_STATUS` registers

Reviewer: add a period at the end

Author: updated.

  - `PROT_CAP` register byte 0: MAGIC STRING.
- Caliptra ROM performs only read-modify-write (RMW) for updates to registers.

> - I3C device must update FIFO size (1-256 Byte), Max transfer size and type of region (tie this to 0x1) to `INDIRECT_FIFO_STATUS` register, which could be read by BMC firmware to understand the size of the FIFO & max transfer size.

Reviewer: `&`-->`and`

- BMC is responsible for re-sending the transaction if it fails due to PEC error.
- ALL Caliptra ROM accesses to recovery interface are completed via DMA assist.

## Requirement for Payload Available Signal Implementation
- **Name**: `payload_available`
- **Type**: 1 bit wire
- **Source**: Recovery Interface
- **Destination**: Caliptra core

### Assertion
- The `payload_available` signal must assert if recovery FIFO indicates full (256B) or image activation status is asserted (which indicates the last transfer is complete).

### De-assertion
- The `payload_available` signal must reset if recovery FIFO indicates empty.

## Requirement for Image Activation Signal Implementation
- **Name**: `image_activated`
- **Type**: 1 bit wire
- **Source**: Recovery Interface
- **Destination**: Caliptra core

### Assertion
- The `image_activated` signal must assert when `RECOVERY_CTRL` register byte 2 has value `0xf` (indicating image activation).

### De-assertion
- The `image_activated` signal must deassert when the `RECOVERY_CTRL` register byte 2 has value `0x0` (indicating image activation is cleared).

> ## BMC or a similar platform component requirements for recovery support

Reviewer: I think you could update the heading text to: 

Platform component requirements for recovery support

or

Requirements for recovery support

If needed, in step 1 below, instead of `It` you could say `The BMC, or similar platform, should not...`

# Caliptra Subsystem Streaming Boot Sequence

1. MCU ROM / MCU firmware / SOC initializes `PROT_CAP` and `DEVICE_STATUS`. Any I3C initialization required is performed by MCU ROM, I3C target HW, and I3C initiator. Populating `DEVICE_ID` & `HW_STATUS` will be part of integrators or vendors’ responsibilities. It is not a part of the streaming boot specification document. However, it is required before starting the streaming boot.
2. Caliptra ROM/Firmware must update `PROT_CAP` register, bit 11 to set to ‘1 “Flashless boot (From RESET)”. `PROT_CAP` must indicate support for FIFO CMS for I3C device by updating byte 10-11, bit 12 with 0x1 “FIFO CMS Support”. Caliptra ROM/Firmware must update bit 7 push c-image support.
3. To start streaming boot, Caliptra ROM will write `DEVICE_STATUS` register to “RECOVERY_MODE” by writing byte 0, with data 0x3. Caliptra ROM will write `DEVICE_STATUS` register’s byte 2-3 to set the FSB parameter (0x12).

> 4. Caliptra ROM will write via DMA assist to `RECOVERY_STATUS` register with data of (byte 0, 0x1) and sets the streaming boot image index to 0x0.

Reviewer 2: This is the only item that explicitly states "via DMA assist", but this entire flow requires ROM to use DMA assist for all accesses to recovery interface. 
I suggest removing it here, and adding a bullet below under Notes/Assumptions that states ALL Caliptra ROM accesses to recovery interface are via DMA assist.

Author: Done.

5. BMC or a similar platform component will update `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL` with Component Memory Space (CMS) byte 0 with 0x0, Reset field byte 1 with 0x1 and Image size byte 2 to 5 field to size of the image. Caliptra ROM/firmware will read `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL_IMG_SIZE` register for the image size.
6. BMC or a similar platform component writes to `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA` register. I3C device shall return a NACK response for any transfer that would cause the Head Pointer to advance to equal the Tail Pointer. BMC can implement flow control through NACK responses or by monitoring the FIFO space remaining via the Head and Tail Pointers.
7. The I3C device will keep head and tail pointers along with FIFO status up to date into `INDIRECT_FIFO_STATUS` register. I3C streaming boot interface HW waits for an update to `INDIRECT_DATA_REG` with 1-256B data from BMC.

> 8. If there is a write to `INDIRECT_DATA_FIFO`, I3C device will indicate data availability via side channel implemented as wire `payload_available` (for more details read here) to Caliptra. Caliptra HW will latch this wire into the register for Caliptra firmware to read.

Reviewer 2: missing link? (for more details read here).
We need to explicitly list the conditions that cause payload_available to assert:
* FIFO is filled
* Image activation is set

Author: missing link? (for more details read here). -- Added,

We need to explicitly list the conditions that cause payload_available to assert:
FIFO is filled
Image activation is set-- Stated below.

Reviewer 2: I suppose the link is meant to point below:
`## Requirement for Payload Available Signal Implementation`

> 9. Caliptra ROM arms DMA interface to read `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL` for the image size and programs DMA engine back to read the image data from `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA`.

Reviewer 2: Both steps 5 and 9 include reading image size. Since ROM waits for payload_available to be set to discover that the image size register is populated, IMO we should remove `Caliptra ROM/firmware will read INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL_IMG_SIZE register for the image size.` from step 5 and only list it in step 9.
Step 9 should also say `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL_IMG_SIZE` instead of just `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL`, right?

Author: Updated.

10. Steps 9 through 11 repeat until all the images are pushed over I3C and it matches the image size initialized into the `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL` register.

> 11. After the above steps, Caliptra ROM Firmware will wait for BMC to activate the image indicated to Caliptra via side channel or Caliptra ROM could repeatedly read `RECOVERY_CTRL` register byte 2 for value 0xf for image activation.

Reviewer 2: This sentence could be improved grammatically to make the 2 options for detecting image activation more clear.

   - 0x0: Not in recovery mode
   - 0x1: Awaiting recovery image
   - 0x2: Booting recovery image
   - 0x3: Recovery successful
   - 0xc: Recovery failed
   - 0xd: Recovery image authentication error
   - 0xe: Error entering Recovery mode (might be administratively disabled)
   - 0xf: Invalid component address space
16. If the image consumption fails for any reason (for example, image authentication failure), Caliptra ROM/firmware must update `DEVICE_STATUS` to 0xE: Boot Failure (Recover Reason Code populated) & populate, Byte 2-3 with one of the Recovery Reason Codes from Recovery Reason Codes in OCP recovery Spec.
17. BMC or a similar platform component will send the next image as requested in the image index, and Caliptra RT FW and I3C HW go through the same flow as above.

## Notes / Assumptions / Outside Streaming Boot Spec Scope 

- ROM will refer to I3C registers by offset, and any change to the offset will result in ROM failure or unexpected behavior.
- SoC will be responsible for booting the I3C Core with the following registers:

>   - Values must be confirmed against latest I3C core specification for up-to-date settings. 

Reviewer 2: Add some verbiage explaining what these config register accesses do? (e.g. configuring clock frequency/sampling rate)

  
- SoC will be responsible for assigning static addresses to the I3C Core.
- Caliptra ROM/runtime firmware will update the `RECOVERY_STATUS` Bit [7:4] with the recovery image index.
- SoC/MCU ROM can set the `HW_STATUS` register per recovery spec at any time based on SoC-specific conditions.
- MCU ROM will program `DEVICE_ID` register value based on associated fuse values.
- SoC/MCU ROM initializes the `PROT_CAP`, `DEVICE_ID`, and `DEVICE_STATUS` registers:
  - `PROT_CAP` register byte 0: MAGIC STRING.
- Caliptra ROM will perform read-modify-write (RMW) only for updated bits.
- I3C device must update FIFO size (1-256 Byte), Max transfer size and type of region (tie this to 0x1) to `INDIRECT_FIFO_STATUS` register, which could be read by BMC firmware to understand the size of the FIFO & max transfer size.
- BMC is responsible for re-sending the transaction if it fails due to PEC error.
- For recovery Image index:
  - `0x0`: Caliptra firmware
  - `0x1`: SoC Manifest
  - `0x2`: MCU firmware

## Requirement for Payload Available Signal Implementation
- **Name**: `payload_available`
- **Type**: 1 bit wire
- **Source**: Recovery Interface
- **Destination**: Caliptra core

### Assertion

> - The `payload_available` signal must assert if recovery FIFO indicates full (256B) or image activation status is asserted (essentially indicating the last transfer is complete).

Reviewer 2: nit: "recovery FIFO" -> "indirect FIFO"
nit: "essentially indicating" -> "which indicates"

# Caliptra Subsystem Streaming Boot Sequence

> 1. MCU ROM / MCU firmware / SOC initializes `PROT_CAP` and `DEVICE_STATUS`. Any I3C initialization required is performed by MCU ROM, I3C target HW, and I3C initiator. Populating `DEVICE_ID` & `HW_STATUS` will be part of integrators or vendors’ responsibilities. It is not a part of the streaming boot specification document. However, it is required before starting the streaming boot.

Reviewer 4: * This must be MCU ROM right? No need to mention other options.
* I think it is clearer to say: "MCU ROM initializes the PROT_CAP, DEVICE_STATUS, DEVICE_ID, and HW_STATUS registers." No need for the other sentences.

> 2. Caliptra ROM/Firmware must update `PROT_CAP` register, bit 11 to set to ‘1 “Flashless boot (From RESET)”. `PROT_CAP` must indicate support for FIFO CMS for I3C device by updating byte 10-11, bit 12 with 0x1 “FIFO CMS Support”. Caliptra ROM/Firmware must update bit 7 push c-image support.

Reviewer 4: since this is a sequence, just use the verb itself.
"Caliptra ROM updates the PROT_CAP register to set "Flashless boot (From RESET)", "FIFO CMS Support", and "Push-C-Image Support". No need to put bit indices, as we don't want to duplicate information from OCP Recovery spec.

> 2. Caliptra ROM/Firmware must update `PROT_CAP` register, bit 11 to set to ‘1 “Flashless boot (From RESET)”. `PROT_CAP` must indicate support for FIFO CMS for I3C device by updating byte 10-11, bit 12 with 0x1 “FIFO CMS Support”. Caliptra ROM/Firmware must update bit 7 push c-image support.

Reviewer 3: Need to add the Caliptra Core ROM step for checking RECOVERY_CTRL Activate Recovery Image bit before step 2.

Author: This no longer needed.

> 3. To start streaming boot, Caliptra ROM will write `DEVICE_STATUS` register to “RECOVERY_MODE” by writing byte 0, with data 0x3. Caliptra ROM will write `DEVICE_STATUS` register’s byte 2-3 to set the FSB parameter (0x12).

Reviewer 4: general commentary throughout: keep the same tense, phrase as sequence steps instead of requirements because that's what the subject heading is.
"Caliptra ROM writes"
"BMC sends write command"

> 4. Caliptra ROM will write to `RECOVERY_STATUS` register with data of (byte 0, 0x1) and sets the streaming boot image index to 0x0.

Reviewer 3: I would also add that streaming boot image index of 0x0 indicates the Caliptra Core Firmware Image.

> 5. BMC or a similar platform component will update `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL` with Component Memory Space (CMS) byte 0 with 0x0, Reset field byte 1 with 0x1 and Image size byte 2 to 5 field to size of the image. Caliptra ROM/firmware will read `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL_IMG_SIZE` register for the image size.

Author: Updated.

> 6. BMC or a similar platform component writes to `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA` register. I3C device shall return a NACK response for any transfer that would cause the Head Pointer to advance to equal the Tail Pointer. BMC can implement flow control through NACK responses or by monitoring the FIFO space remaining via the Head and Tail Pointers.

Author: Updated.

> 7. The I3C device will keep head and tail pointers along with FIFO status up to date into `INDIRECT_FIFO_STATUS` register. I3C streaming boot interface HW waits for an update to `INDIRECT_DATA_REG` with 1-256B data from BMC.

Reviewer 4: Can Caliptra actually handle a range of sizes? I thought there's an errata where all transactions until the last one had to be 256B. That must be noted here.

Author: Updated as per comments.

8. If there is a write to `INDIRECT_DATA_FIFO`, I3C device will indicate data availability via side channel implemented as wire `payload_available` ( for more details read [here](#requirement-for-payload-available-signal-implementation) )to Caliptra. Caliptra HW will latch this wire into the register for Caliptra firmware to read.

> 9. Caliptra ROM arms DMA interface to read `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL` for the image size and programs DMA engine back to read the image data from `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL_IMG_SIZE`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
9. Caliptra ROM reads `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL_IMG_SIZE` for the image size and reads the image data from `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA` register.
```

Author: Updated.

> 9. Caliptra ROM reads `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL_IMG_SIZE` for the image size and reads the image data from `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA` register.

Reviewer 3: Add step 8.1 stating Caliptra Core ROM will set the INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL0 register 'Reset' bit to 1.

Author: Added

> 10. Steps 9 through 11 repeat until all the images are pushed over I3C and it matches the image size initialized into the `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL` register.

Reviewer 5: These are the wrong steps, and we seem to be missing the part where we set the recovery status to "awaiting recovery image" if there are additional images to download.

Author: 8. If there is a write to `INDIRECT_DATA_FIFO`, I3C device will indicate data availability via side channel implemented as wire `payload_available` ( for more details read [here](#requirement-for-payload-available-signal-implementation) )to Caliptra. Caliptra HW will latch this wire into the register for Caliptra firmware to read.
9. Caliptra ROM reads `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL_IMG_SIZE` for the image size and reads the image data from `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA` register.
10. Steps 8 and 9 repeat until all the images are pushed over I3C and it matches the image size initialized into the `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL` register.

Author: Updated steps number, however, for the subsequent image, please refer to Step 17, as BMC and Caliptra are required to go through entire flow again.

> 11. After the above steps, Caliptra ROM Firmware will wait for BMC to activate the image indicated to Caliptra via either of the following methods:

Reviewer 3: Add step 9.1 stating ROM sets the RECOVERY_STATUS register `Device Recovery Status` field to 0x2 (`Booting recovery image`).

> 11. After the above steps, Caliptra ROM Firmware will wait for BMC to activate the image indicated to Caliptra via either of the following methods:

Reviewer 3: Add step 10.1 stating that ROM will set the DEVICE_STATUS0.Device Status field to DEVICE_STATUS_PENDING (0x4)

Author: 0x4: Recovery Pending (waiting for activation) - (Recover Reason Code  populated)

Author: if image activation is not already received, Caliptra ROM sets the DEVICE_STATUS to 0x4: Recovery Pending (waiting for activation) - (Recover Reason Code populated)

Author: Updated based on email conversation.

   - 0x3: Recovery successful
   - 0xc: Recovery failed
   - 0xd: Recovery image authentication error
   - 0xe: Error entering Recovery mode (might be administratively disabled)
   - 0xf: Invalid component address space
16. If the image consumption fails for any reason (for example, image authentication failure), Caliptra ROM/firmware must update `DEVICE_STATUS` to 0xE: Boot Failure (Recover Reason Code populated) & populate, Byte 2-3 with one of the Recovery Reason Codes from Recovery Reason Codes in OCP recovery Spec.
17. BMC or a similar platform component will send the next image as requested in the image index, up on observing “Awaiting for recovery image” in `RECOVERY_STATUS` register and Caliptra RT FW and I3C HW go through the same flow as above.

## Notes / Assumptions / Outside Streaming Boot Spec Scope 

- ROM will refer to I3C registers by offset, and any change to the offset will result in ROM failure or unexpected behavior.
- SoC will be responsible for booting the I3C Core by configuring clock frequency/sampling rate with the following registers and any other requirements specified in I3C core specifications([here](https://github.com/chipsalliance/i3c-core)).

>   - Values must be confirmed against latest I3C core specification for up-to-date settings. 

Author: Done.

2. Caliptra ROM updates the `PROT_CAP` register to set "Flashless boot (From RESET)", "FIFO CMS Support", and "Push-C-Image Support".
3. To start streaming boot, Caliptra ROM updates the `DEVICE_STATUS` register to "Recovery mode - ready to accept recovery image” for Device status byte (for the first image only) and "Flashless/Streaming Boot (FSB)" for Recovery reason codes.
4. Caliptra ROM updates the `RECOVERY_STATUS` register to "Awaiting Recovery Image" for  Device recovery status and "image index" for Recovery image index.
5. BMC or a similar platform component sends an `INDIRECT_FIFO_CTRL` write command with Component Memory Space (CMS) set to 0x0, reset set to 0x1, and image size set to streaming boot image size.
6. BMC or a similar platform component sends an `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA` write command. I3C device shall return a NACK response for any transfer that would cause the Head Pointer to advance to equal the Tail Pointer. BMC can implement flow control through NACK responses or by monitoring the FIFO space remaining via the Head and Tail Pointers.

> 7. The I3C device keeps head and tail pointers along with FIFO status up to date in the `INDIRECT_FIFO_STATUS` register. I3C streaming boot interface HW waits for an update to `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA` with exactly 256 bytes data or less if remaining image data is less than 256 bytes. BMC could send multiple commands to `INDIRECT_FIFO_DATA` register to fill the FIFO, but it must be a multiple of 4 bytes. The I3C device indicates payload availability only if the FIFO is full (256 bytes) or if BMC writes to image activation byte in `RECOVERY_CTRL` register.

Reviewer: `...exactly 256 bytes data or less if...`-->`...exactly 256 bytes of data or less, if...`

Author: Done.

  - Caliptra ROM polls on `RECOVERY_CTRL` register for image activation status.
12. When all the image bytes are received, `DEVICE_STATUS` transitions to "Recovery Pending (waiting for activation)". During image authentication, `DEVICE_STATUS` register field device status remains "Recovery Pending (waiting for activation)". 
13. When the image is activated, Caliptra ROM updates `RECOVERY_STATUS` to “Booting recovery image” and moves to image authentication.
14. Irrespective of success or failure from image authentication (step 15 or 16), Caliptra ROM clears the image activation bit before updating `RECOVERY_STATUS` & `DEVICE_STATUS` register.
15. If the image activation is successful, and another recovery image stage is expected, then Caliptra RT firmware shall increment the “Recovery image index” in `RECOVERY_STATUS` register and set the `RECOVERY_STATUS` to indicate “Awaiting for recovery image” (0x1). If no other stages are expected, then Caliptra RT firmware shall set the `RECOVERY_STATUS` to “Recovery successful”. Also, Caliptra ROM/Caliptra RT must update the `DEVICE_STATUS` register to indicate "Running Recovery Image".

> 16. If the image consumption fails for any reason (for example, image authentication failure), Caliptra ROM/firmware updates `RECOVERY_STATUS` register to indicate appropriate recovery status and `DEVICE_STATUS` register to "Fatal Error (Recover Reason Code not populated)". 

Reviewer: should `Recover Reason` be `Recovery Reason`?

Author: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ge_w9i5A6YKG-7nlTp--JhZf6By7I9oB3oW_2_i7JbE/edit?tab=t.0 
Based on doc, it is Recover Reason code not populated.
0xF: Fatal Error (Recover Reason Code not populated)

### De-assertion
- The `image_activated` signal must deassert when the `RECOVERY_CTRL` register byte 2 has value `0x0` (indicating image activation is cleared).

> ## BMC / Platform component requirements for recovery support 

Reviewer: Recommend avoiding using a slash in a heading. I think you can just use `Platform` here because it is clarified as similar to BMC in the following text.

> 1. The BMC, or a similar platform, should not send payload to streaming boot interface (/I3C target) device if `RECOVERY_CTRL` register has byte 2 indicating Image Activated. BMC must wait to clear the byte 2. (Streaming boot Interface is responsible for clearing this byte by writing 1).

Reviewer: remove capitalization from `Interface`

> 2. The BMC, or a similar platform, sends payload to I3C target device in chunks of 256 bytes ( header (4B) + FW bytes(256B) as I3C target transfer ) only unless it is the last write for the image. Before sending the payload, it reads FIFO empty status from `INDIRECT_FIFO_STATUS` register.

Reviewer: - remove extra spaces around `()` 
- I think you want a comma before `unless`

Author: done.

> 3. After the last write for the image, The BMC, or a similar platform activates the image.

Reviewer: - remove capitalization from `The` 
- add a comma: `or a similar platform activates`-->`or a similar platform, activates`

Author: done.
